# Reflection

## Question 1 (50 words)
#### When and why should you use a function like `carefulSubract` rather than `subtract`? 

When a number is used for those two inputs of ‘carefulSubtract’ it will result in the same subtracted output as just the basic ‘subtract’ function. However, where ‘carefulSubtract’ proves to be more useful than ‘subtract’ is when the non-number inputs are entered. In these cases the basic ‘subtract’ function might result in a error that could mess up larger functions, whereas the ‘carefulSubtract’ will provide a message that explains precisely what the issue is.

## Question 2 (100 words)
#### What are `data types`, and how does data typing work in JavaScript? Name at least 4 built-in data JS data types. 

JavaScript ‘data types’ include: Numbers, Strings, Booleans, Null, etc… Data types are the way different data are categorized for the purposes of code, each type serving a different purpose within code. By being able to classify these data types, a programmer can more easily create safeguards against incorrect inputs into functions they create. Continuing from the question posed in Question 1 of this reflection, by being able to identify data types in the code, a programmer can create an output that explicitly tells the function user why the “carefulSubtract( 5, ‘tom’)” brings back an error - because the function can only subtract numbers. 

## Question 3 (100 words)
#### What is the advantage to storing information as an object (`{firstName: 'Italo', lastName: 'Calvino', profession: 'novelist' }`) rather than as an array (`['Italo', 'Calvino', 'novelist']`)? Are there any disadvantages?

To describe an object as a two dimensional image, an object can effectively understood as a table, where certain items (i.e. “Italo”) are linked to certain keys (i.e. “firstName”). The advantage to objects is that it is easier to create a function that can access certain keys across various objects, given that they have the common keys. For example, you could have several arrays with the format [firstname, lastname, profession]; if the information is stored as an array, to access the items within you would have to call them by their place in the list (i.e. array[0], or array[1]), but this only works if the arrays are ordered the same way with the correct information in the right order - and it can be difficult to understand a function that breaks down an array this way just merely by looking at it. Meanwhile, an object is easier to understand as the items are stored under certain keys. So even if different objects are ordered differently, as long as the same keys are used then a function will be able to find the correct item. Furthermore, it is much easier to understand what a function is meant to do if it calls “object.firstName” as compared to if it calls “array[0]. The disadvantage to objects it that sometimes information does not need to be specifically broken down, sometimes all we need to do is store items in a list without assigning any keys to them.

## Question 4 (150 words)
#### The function `sentences` transforms a data structure (in this case, a list of object literals) into a sequence of sentences. If the data structure were less predictable (e.g., if some properties of each object were occasionally missing, or if their data type was not always the same), what programming techniques could you use to ensure that your function produced a coherent output? Also, can you think of a more interesting "transform" that could be done with the same data structure?

A possible solution to inconsistent data structures within the objects run through the ‘sentences’ function would be to run overarching ‘if’ loops that produce different string outputs based on what items are present within the objects. The first ‘if’ loop would run if all the correct items were present. A second ‘if’ loop could be if only one of the dates were present, or if one of the dates was not a number - in which case an output string could be put forward such as, for example, “Stephen Harper was Prime Minister until 2015”, or “John A MacDonald became Prime Minister in 1867”. The third ‘if’ loop section could be if there was no string assigned to both firstName and lastName keys in an object, in which case an output string could be forward such as “There was a Conservative Prime Minister from 2003 to 2015” — taking other information from the object and structuring it differently. These sorts of safeguards can only go so far in working around missing information or incorrect data types. In the case of creating a function that creates sentences from objects there is always a difficulty as grammar itself is a complex set of rules, even if the objects have correct data types assigned to the correct keys, a simple mistake can easily lead to output sentences that make no sense to the reader.